we fans of Star Trek look at Star Trek
and say wow they imagined that you could
travel hundreds of times the speed of
light they imagined that you could flip
your little device in your hand and talk
to someone thousands of miles away they
imagined you could walk up to a door and
it would open without you touching it
when I saw Star Trek that was the least
believable part of it to me for the
future how does the door know I was good
with the photon Torpedoes the phasers
the communicators the quars but the
automatic door was just it was not
happening like come on
[Music]
guys this is Star Talk Neil degrass
Tyson here your personal
astrophysicist and this is a cosmic
queries Edition which means we got Chuck
Nice in the house that's right all right
Chuck what's happening now your
questions today are not random they are
not indeed they are all on one subject
that's right and that subject is the
only
subject Star Trek Star Trek Star we are
overdue to have a Star Trek episode
that's right and but I I I I am I could
get a little ways on that topic but we
have to get go to our Deacon Chief we
called him and said make it
so Charles Lou welcome back to Star talk
thank you Neil hello Charles L for those
of you who don't know is a friend and
colleague he's a professor at at the
City University of New York uh still at
Staten Island but you're at The Graduate
Center as well yes yes which interacts
with graduate students and things right
it's a combination yeah good good and
you have your own podcast it is called
the lunaverse the
Lune did there very cool I can't take
credit for it my family told me to use
it I was like really and they're like
yeah yeah yeah that's good that's good
we we'll give them that one okay and I
just learned my boy here my so proud of
him okay I can say that cuz I'm 10 years
older than him so I get to say that he
just came out I don't is this is this
out yet it is out it is out yet there's
the handy answer book which is a series
okay okay then this the handy put in
your favorite subject answer book right
okay this is one that where's it been
all our lives okay the handy quantum
physics answer book oh my gosh everybody
who is claiming to invoke quantum
physics to explain stuff they don't
understand needs this book absolutely
and there's a little Scher cat right on
the bottom oh you got a cat right and
you got the little
ad and oh my gosh oh that's so cool look
at that because so this is if you've now
you don't research in quantum physics
that's right I use quantum phys you use
quantum physics every day so it's a
user's guide that's really what it is
yeah the answer book is not designed to
sort of reveal the most detailed Deep In
The Weeds research results but it's kind
of like we all know Quantum is there and
we wonder about it so got a little
question got a little answer there
there's a whole bunch a whole biology
section here okay how does Quantum work
in biology lot of us don't understand
that our eyes work because of quantum
Quant yes they do uh why the photons
that come hit our eyes they have to
activate certain cells and the rods and
cones activated when you have a Quantum
reaction from a photon and a cell so so
those are molecules that that are
absorbing the photon something happens
when the photon gets absorbed yeah
that's you it's called
sight you got a chaff on quantum
entanglement you've got bios on people
who contributed here and and what is the
size of the electron that's my favorite
one I love it okay and what is the size
of the electron it's at most 10 Theus 18
m in diameter but the thing
is why are we putting it in the minus
what what what measurement would it be
in the positive like why you gotta be on
negative fair enough a billion of a
billionth of a meter a billionth of a
meter a billionth of a billionth a
billionth of a billionth now a billion
at most what is a nano what's that
that's a billion that's a billion that's
just billion so this isan get your th's
in there billion
right and a nano is 10us 9 that's 10 so
10- 9 * 10- 9
is yeah
yeah
nananan nanano okay no the thing is
though the electron is so small and has
such a weird profile that its size isn't
really determinant right you can it
depending on how you try to measure it
or try to do things minute is
indeterminate how do you measure it to
get that number no he didn't say you
didn't you weren't listening to him he
didn't say this is the size of the
electron he said it's smaller than this
size because that was the smallest size
we are capable of measure we can't
measure anything smaller than that but
it's smaller and it might mean that the
electron has no size at all could it be
for all we know so could it be that the
electron is ex it's in the book we got
to get to the show oh that's not see
this is what she did happened this what
happened when you mess with the quantum
man
if you mess with the quantum you get the
horns quum you get the horns baby oh my
go and they're entangled those horns are
okay okay Star Trek I'm old enough to
say that the first round of Star Trek
occurred in my living memory mhm that's
how old I am that's cool I didn't see
Star Trek until reruns yeah I saw it
when it came on weekly I wasn't allowed
to watch TV during a school week oh you
had some good parents so most of the
episodes I would ultimately see would be
in reruns MH MH but I was around when
people were talking about star Star Trek
and what it meant to the people and to
culture I can't believe they got the
show with there's a black woman who
answers the phone but she's actually
sitting next to all the other white
people on the
bridge crazy it's CRA let's let's spend
a minute before we get all racial on it
let's find out um what about the
Technologies do you find most intriguing
and remind us what year is it the
original season took place in what year
supposedly took place around the year
20260 okay so that would have been 200
years in the future that's right so the
1760s looks to the 1960s surely what the
1960s would look like the 2260 surely
that's a completely rational thinking
there right I me it could be I mean uh
however look in 76 they'd have Koga
wagons and in the 1960s we're going to
the Moon thank you I'm just there's kind
of a hockey stick um element to pression
no no you didn't read my recent book no
you think it's a hockey stick it's not
you think that we are going to have
faster than light travel I didn't say
that I didn't say that I'm saying the
hockey stick uhuh is deeper than you
know the answer is it's always a hockey
stick I like that okay I'll get i'll get
to that we're going happen I see what
you going so Charles you you an
impressionable kid you are a techn
ologist culturally uh you're a scientist
what in the science technology of Star
Trek really impacted you well I always
feel that I have to think back to Albert
Einstein who said that creativity and
Imagination was more important than
knowledge what you could imagine to
Einstein you can say that but there's
some dumbass people don't
know no once you get to a certain stage
truck has been been influencing me it's
I a basic level of knowledge is of
course extremely important but in order
to really make advances you really have
to imagine something before it can exist
right so what we dream it yeah yeah so
what we come from Star Trek we fans of
Star Trek look at Star Trek and say wow
they imagined that you could travel
hundreds of times the speed of light
they imagine that you could flip your
little device on your hand and talk to
someone thousands of miles away hello
they imagined yeah they imagined you
could walk up to a door and it would
open without you touching it so all that
Trek came around automatic doors weren't
of course not no did you did you hear
I've said it a hundred times I'll say it
again when I saw Star Trek that was the
least believable part of it to me for
the future I remember you said that yes
that's why that's what I'm saying I I
said how does the door know okay I I I
was good with the photon Torpedoes the
phasers the communicators the tri quars
and I I but the automatic door was just
it was not happening come on guys the
best we had the best we had were
pressure pads that's right going into
like supermarkets going into
supermarkets because you got groceries
and things you'd step on the pad but you
needed room for the door to Swing Swing
there were no pocket doors or anything
so so tell me yeah where where where
were you with the technology well as a
kid I didn't know yet how revolutionary
all this stuff was I just naturally
assumed it it's like oh okay in the
future they'll have these phaser things
uh and it was really cool with the
phasers that you could set them on stun
I just really like the fact that they
were designed not to be lethal so you're
a kid and that's just the future yeah
but they're thinking that future 200
years I don't know that they're thinking
that it's in their near future in the
future of the lifetime of people alive
at the time of the show because you go
down the list they tablet computers we
got got that check check checklist okay
in my hand right now a tablet okay we're
not getting paid by Apple for him to
hold up the logo in front of it okay
Apple
call now now I got to read everything
like
this uh tablet computers handheld
communicators right in fact we went
through flip phones and now that's old
that's old that's old news that's old if
they try to go back with the who's got
the Samsung has the foldy thing the Z
flip I think they're they're trying to
still feel the flip but telepresence so
we can zoom with everybody we can meet
with everybody AT&T was already on the
heels of that with their video phone and
I don't think people realized at the
time that when you call someone they
don't always want you looking at
them well yeah we we learned that the
hard way in the pandemic oh my
goodness but you know in 2001 A Space
Odyssey there was already a video phone
right right the beginning of the movie
somebody's calling their child at the
end AT&T says you know your cost is $170
thanks for calling exactly so so the
film was shot in 1968 that's right which
was with within just a couple of years
of Star Trek that's right and so they're
imagining video phones not 200 years in
the future just 35 years in the future
they got it more correct yeah they got
it a little more correct there well
clearly everybody got it correct because
no matter where you went in the galaxy
and no matter what species you
encountered Lieutenant aora put on
screen and then the person would come up
on screen and they'd be like yeah
Charles where's the camera putting them
up on screen exactly where where is that
know it was a backlit screen was
probably OLED or something like that a
lot of those technological things were
actually done for entertainment
storytelling purposes right not for
scientific imagination uh our world yeah
the transporter was a classic example
they didn't want to spend a lot of time
shuttling people back and forth on
little boats and so they just
immediately instantaneously brought
someone from over here to over there it
was only after that became such a cool
feature of the entire show that people
started to rcon it and retro actively
try to figure out what was the physics
behind it and they ran into all kinds of
problems so they just sort of said yeah
it just sort of works you give them a
hall pass on that one yeah yeah cuz I
heard that the cost I don't I I just
heard this once and I didn't verify it
but it seemed plausible that they cost
it out what it would take to have a ship
land have people get off the ship and
then get back on a ship and go back and
dock right so there's an there's a cost
given how many times they going back and
forth to planets to have to Stage the
landing of a of a spacecraft and have it
take so they just pulled this out of an
orifice to make it happen and now like
what's the word you use retro rcon
retroactive con
to O that's a thing I never heard about
it's very common in comic books
something happens and then you have to
go back and say oh this is
what you have to stitch it back together
you reverse engineer the science is
pretty much what it is that's what
you're doing okay yeah and so what about
uh warp drives that was a that that's
really what blew this open for me I
think so we all want they didn't say oh
we just go faster than light no they
didn't do that because they knew that's
not allowed that's right this this is
their hat to Einstein in a very
important way they called it a warp
factor whatever right and that warp
drive eventually became also a
significant storytelling thing because
then that meant it was a an engine and
that engine had to be uh worked with uh
exotic materials there was a new thing
invented called dilithium dthi crystals
the crystals Were Somehow important in
making all of the matter antimatter
transaction work properly although the
terms matter and antimatter weren't used
all that much in the original Star Trek
no they weren't yeah and then later on
the so-called Photon Torpedoes were also
revealed to be basically big chunks of
antimatter that were in uh Torpedoes
that you could fire at people but the
ideas did come from this uh sense that
we got to get from point A to point B
and we know they're far away so we have
to find some way to get from here to
there and that takes you somewhere
that's not the usual dimensions of space
so that led to all kinds of wonderful
stories numerous episodes where some
sort of warp drive failure or some sort
of Transporter failure uh would lead to
a story line yeah yeah that's true
really good stuff one of the one of the
most revered episodes is called Mirror
Mirror uh where a transporter accident
accidentally brings several members of
the bridge crew into a parallel universe
something that we might think of in the
many worlds interpretation of quantum
mechanics right exactly and in this
parallel universe everyone was evil evil
Spar and evil
Kirk marvelous stories right and you
could tell how the evil spark was
because he had a goatee whereas the good
spark was clean
shaven
yes in an age where cyber threats are
everywhere Bit Defender has been at the
Forefront of cyber security for over 20
years fighting cyber crime dismantling
ransomware groups and preventing over
one .6 billion in Ransom fees now Bit
Defender has reached New Heights
literally in November of 2024 Bit
Defender secured the drop coal device
launched to the International Space
Station this groundbreaking project
studies how droplets form in space and
Bit Defender gravity Zone solution
ensures the devic's research is
protected throughout the duration of the
mission with no realtime updates or
physical interven ition possible gravity
zones autonomous threat detection and
minimal resource usage keep the mission
Safe from cyber risks bearded on Earth
or in space whether you're securing
devices in space or complex systems on
the ground Bit Defender delivers
resilient automated protection where
failure simply isn't an option find out
more about Bit Defender and try out
their services by visiting the link in
the video description now let's get back
to the show and then in the old days it
was a white hat and a black hat but the
goatee you because the devil has a
goatee right that's right so wonderful
stories why wouldn't they and one one so
let me I had some issues with things
that maybe they could have thought about
a little more deeply so for example the
phasers that came out of the ship yeah
if it's a directed energy weapon
yeah like a variant on a laser of course
phaser you should not be able to see it
from the side
correct un you know hit chalkboard
erasers to make a cloud for you to see
it go through the it is the vacuum of
space that's right it should not be
visible from the side that's right and
that had to be rcon also the idea that
oh so they have an okay the idea that
phasers and lasers are completely
different things was addressed later on
in an episode of Star Trek the Next
Generation where they showed that lasers
were extremely weak compared to phasers
phasers are a whole different kind of
energy beam weapon right and as a result
they could be seen from the side
furthermore they dissipated over time so
that if you missed it wouldn't keep
going you know take out a planet by
accident yeah six years later there's uh
just some ship just that explodes
Houston we have a problem smoke all
right so so what you're saying it's so
powerful there's some energy leakage
sideways
and you know what's funny I read a great
thing about uh uh Jean rotenberry when
they were coming up they originally were
going to call them lasers ah but they
said well lasers are a real technology
we we got to futurize this right we got
to make sure who knows where lasers will
be in 10 years and we'll look kind of
stupid so we got to we got to Future
proof this that's really smart because
indeed laser wound up in everything that
we use right there was a day when laser
Floyd was the big attraction in the
evening hours on the weekend at
planetariums all right and that's 1970s
by the late 80s lasers were like impulse
items at Kmart so no longer could you
say Let's go see lasers right it lost
the draw the laser light show this
Saturday night yeah yeah
exactly uh one last thing and then we
got to go to Q&A because that's the
whole point of this okay uh it's hard
enough having a convers with somebody on
the moon mhm mhm because the light
travel time yes delays like two two and
a half seconds yes so you can't have
witty reparte right they're talking to
people halfway across the Galaxy in
start Trek that's right I don't know
that that was addressed in the in the
original series in the original series
it really wasn't addressed we just
accepted the fact we just expect yeah
you could do it okay uh your
transponders your communicators were
just instantaneous in the Next
Generation they came up with this idea
of Subspace Communications uh it was
more properly addressed that the
communications did not go through
regular space in fact it had a almost a
different dimension or kind of Sid
stepped this dimensions of ordinary
space that we went some kind of
communication Wormhole that they were
able to this kind of communication was
instantaneous it was way faster than
even the fastest Starships so my sense
of of the transporter yeah is cuz I get
this question every now and then and
they say we how close are we to
Transporters and I say sometimes your
goal is solved by a different solution
that might be more creative or simpler
than the one you think is necessary
that's right and so I foresee a day
where we do get command of wormholes and
you just step through a wormhole yeah
you don't need a trans I don't need to I
don't need to disassemble your your your
entire molecular construct uh uh and
makeup and put it back together and put
it back together correctly right well in
that sense right you're dependent on the
network right the Star Trek Discovery
series uh focuses on something called
the melium network right it's based on
mushroom mushrooms almost yeah right and
and of course mushrooms are now very
popular in science fiction it is the
basis for the last of us the zombie yes
fungus more broadly fungus more than
mushrooms but this mycelium thing just
to be clear fungus is
a branch of it is a kingdom of the tree
of life right as adverse and cool as
animals as plants correct within the
fungus Kingdom you have things like
yeast but you also have mushrooms that
we eat and mushrooms that'll kill us and
mushrooms that'll take take you in your
own Subspace trip right it the the
networks like that are very much like a
public transportation Network you can
only go to certain station or certain
places that you want right allows you to
go literally anywhere that you want to
go whenever you want to go no I'm saying
you have a machine that opens up a
wormhole like like Rick and Rick and
Morty like like Mr Mr Magic guy in uh
who's this guy Dr Strange Doctor Strange
he he opens a hole wherever he wants and
whenever he wants don't don't try to
defend Transporters on that Bas then
you're in Magic dude you're not in
science anymore no Rick uses real real
science oh of course yeah
because OB yes whereas Dr
he uses
magic right and and so we we were duly
informed that this whole study of the
melium networks for mushrooms and
mushrooms in general fungus is micology
yes which I think is a pretty cool a
wonderful area study I recently heard a
scientist describe the possibility that
the reason that we mammals were able to
evolve After The Dinosaurs had their
terrible Extinction right
is because we had a better relationship
had a better relationship with fungi
with with really our body temperatures
allowed us to resist infections and
parasitic re relationships with uh fungi
whereas say reptiles which are cold
blooded we not and so over those 65
million years the reptiles stay you know
like crocodiles for example they're
still roughly the same as they used to
whereas we are way different from those
little tiny reptilian no Chuck still has
a Reptilian Brain we all still have
reptilian without a doubt some of us are
just bigger and some of us just smaller
I also like to sound on a rock so
oh with your belly exactly mouth wide
open I forgot they youw open their mouth
don't they um so if you look at the Tree
of Life yeah what impresses me most
intrigues me most is that the common
ancestor between animals and fungus
between mushrooms and humans yes split
later in the tree of life than its
common ancestor split with green
plants which means humans and mushrooms
are more genetically related either of
us are to green plants to green plants
ain't that ain't that something pretty
amazing and that's that's why maybe
that's why I love shitake so much that's
what I'm saying and that's why we and no
one has ever accused kale of tasting
meaty that's so true people have used
the word with mushrooms and nobody ever
had a kale Burger but people have had
Portell Burgers Portell burgers and the
Umami that's been described is common in
not only Meats but in mushroom mushrooms
you mommy flavor that's right when you
eat it and you go
Mommy is that where that came that's
yeah that's Japan the
first because they came up with that one
I think it was Japanese right abely
Japanese Aaron Jack Jackson says hello
Dr Tyson Star-Lord and uh Dr lunaverse o
oo thank you Aaron from Lake Balo
California here my question has to do
with the SpaceTime travel at warp speed
a planet a is 100 light years from
Planet B it would take the starship
Voyager 100 years to arrive at warp
speed 101 now my question is doesn't it
get closer or farther away from planet a
over that duration of 100 years
depending on the respective trajectories
in other words the expansion of the
universe does it take warp speed does
that take into account the expansion of
the universe itself
I presume that it must right it's not
hard to make that calculation right and
but Charles what we're talking the
universe is not expanding that far in
the time it takes them adourn the TV
commercial what we should keep in mind
is that most of the travel in fact
almost all the travel of Star Trek
happens within our Milky Way galaxy and
within that space the expansion of the
universe is completely counteracted by
the gravitational pole that's of the
objects in the Galaxy right so so
just to make sure I got it clear right
we're experiencing the expansion of the
universe but because we are coalesced by
the gravity of our own Galaxy we're not
experiencing it like we were outside of
the Galaxy we're kind of all in it
together moving together make a stronger
point that the forces that keep your
body together the molecular forces the
gravity our proximity to Earth and
Earth's proximity to the sun and the
sun's proximity to the center of the gy
that is tighter than any expansion of
the universe would manifest on that
scale okay I got you so we win right
right like the the expansion of the
universe is never going to pull us apart
until you get to that place the Big R
called the Big Rip oh Jesus Christ oh
God anyway so go ahead that's a whole
another show whole another show that was
a explainer in another episode right and
so I wouldn't worry about that motion
it's something that we can compensate
for with no problem and you sure he's
not asking the question that in their in
Star Trek's version of the warp drive
aren't they pulling the object that's in
front of you closer to you and then
expanding the space behind you so that
you're effectively moving fast that's
not what he's asking that's the warp
shell bubble yeah that's the thing that
Miguel aluer suggested in his
calculations up with you man you are out
of this world I'm telling you right now
he like we just mentioned warp driv you
like Michelle
like where do you come up with that I
didn't come up kuer no no he's a guy he
there's a lot written about that idea
right enabling okay that that paper
would have been intriguing and
interesting just by itself right in the
scientific Community okay but sci-fi
people took it and ran with it ran with
it oh my gosh well you just opened up a
whole new world for me well enjoy it
it's kind of fun and by the way you
pronounced it in a French way but he's
Spanish or Mexican meic oh really yeah
oh so it's just like Michelle what's up
V Miguel
Miguel Miguel Miguel Miguel right so yes
it is true that you pull space backward
and forward but in the continuity of
Star Trek the idea is after you've done
the pulling it snaps back into place and
you haven't noticed any change because
it happened so fast wow so you don't
have to worry about space time and
distances distorting on a long-term
basis it just happens so quickly because
you're traveling
through bubble kind of yeah treat space
and traveling through space like that
okay amazing all right let's go keep
going here we go this is oh my goodness
I don't know how to say this you never
know how to say anybody's name so is
some exception to all right I'm G call
you Joe this is Joe Samuel Lopez um he
says hello Star Talk Enterprise oh I see
what you did there Joe uh JLo here from
Portugal here's my simple question what
Star Trek characters do you identify
with the most and thank you a
good totally have an answer to that one
oh yeah my answer is kind of a copout
but actually the reason I like Star Trek
is because I don't affiliate with any
individual character I like the stories
separate from me that's a cop app that's
what I told you that's what I told you
no no no what what's yours name no no
Chuck okay oh Chuck okay so the one I
like the most is Mr Spock because I
loved how logical he was and I thought
it would be so great to live your life
without emotion and never be affected by
things just be able to assess them and
analyze but the one I truly identify
with the most is Scotty because he's
always freaking the hell out you know
got come through it I'm Sor she's got to
Blue C I can't do it like he's and he
always did it which is more like who I
am he always said he can't do it but
then he always did it you know so it
would be Scotty for real all so for me
it's it's James tiberious Kirk really
really because you I've been in
leadership positions MH and you can lead
in many different ways right all right
one of them is you can just lead by
example another one is you can just
follow what everyone wants you to do so
you're the leader because you're
actually following them y all right
that's technically what our elected
officials supposed to do that's right
okay then you're manag rather than okay
and so there are different ways to do
that for me
Kirk would get into his own
fights John Luke peard did he ever go
into fisty cuffs with anybody oh yes how
as much as Captain Kirk did he didn't
have to there was always a flashback
though
C oh you're referring to tapestry yes
the episode where he get stabbed Through
the Heart by an angry nosin over a pool
fight well Dom jock Technic but it ends
up it ends up being the defining and
pivotal moment of his life that allows
him to be the dynamic decision
definitive person that he is
but I like the fact yeah that Spock
could not beat Kirk in a game of chess
because Kirk made decisions that were
not always not always logical right and
if you and that means he was more human
and being human and fully experiencing
everything that makes you human
means the emotions have to flow through
you in some way that you can manage and
control perhaps but certainly Express
wow and so so the fact that he would
fight his own fights he could outsmart
computers I always wanted that power
okay uh you know the computer says uh
this is the prime director we must do
this but wait a minute you are yourself
a contamination on the we must
error
error yeah yeah so yeah that's right the
sterilized episode so he would put it
into a do Loop and the computer couldn't
get out of and the smoke would come out
of the computer yeah but I think that
that's really something that uh William
Shatner had the writers put in more
than I just got a feeling that William
sh was like I am not going to be dumber
than a
computer and I certainly am not going to
be dumber than
nemoy so you're going to make we win at
chess and beat the computer like that is
a little weird they come after the fact
and beat the guy at chess who okay so I
identified immensely with his character
wow right that's cool okay that's cool I
love yeah that's cool there's so many of
them now like you it's hard that's a
hard question you know because oh by the
way was it SBE Christies had a a a Star
Trek memorabilia auction yes okay and I
so I I attended it was a multi-day thing
big and I attended and one of the things
they s this is obscure Fact one of the
things they sold they auctioned mhm were
foam
phasers it is the phaser on the hip of
the stunt doubles Goa in those scenes
that makes sense wow so that they don't
get hurt they don't get hurt by the yeah
or break the phases cuz you know like
they only had six of them that's right
let's be
honest so I just was cool they thought
of everything right when you're filming
you got to do it cool you ever wanted
one of your questions on the universe
answered we all have questions about the
universe black holes to quazars quantum
entanglement wormholes there is no end
to the depths of cosmic curiosity well
the entry level of patreon membership
with Star Talk gets you just that I
think it starts at $5 a month you have
access to the question line that reaches
our Cosmic query programming and not
only that we produce a special Cosmic
queries installment just for patreon
members if you weren't the director of
the Hayden planetarium what do you think
you would be doing what okay but this
had to be another Universe it wouldn't
happen in this universe okay I'd be I'd
be a a songwriter for Broadway musical
oo so that's the entry level and the
perks ascent and from there uh there's a
level in fact where we send you a an
autographed copy of one of my latest
books uh right now it's Star Messenger
Cosmic perspectives on civilization and
it's signed with my fancy fountain pen
with purple ink so I invite you to just
check the link below and all of that
money goes to our ability to experiment
with new ways of bringing the universe
down to earth so thank you for those who
have already joined and we welcome
others to participate in this Grand
Adventure of what it is to bring the
universe down to earth as always keep
looking up all right here we go this is
Bryant and Brian says how close are we
developing a warp drive engine so that
humans can have the ability to travel
faster than light so first of all is
faster than light trap well is it
possible I mean period we we were just
talking about miguela kuer war Drive
idea right where you can warp space No
Object can travel through space faster
than light it's a straightforward rule
object as distinct from energy photons
if you have other things though right
then they might be able to travel faster
than now what about the whole idea of
warping space bending it so you're not
traveling through the medium of space
faster than the speed of light what
you're doing is you're bringing points
of space together and then unfolding it
so that you have traveled fast than the
speed of light but you have not broken
the speed limit itself what about that
aren't you effectively moving through a
wormhole to connect those two points
though still we're still in Wormhole
World here what people are talking about
when they're traveling faster than light
is about moving from point A to point B
right at speed faster than 18622 mil
hour per second excuse me right it's
that kind of thing so what you
describing is exactly Neil described uh
some sort of passageway that makes a
differ can we actually move from point A
to point B at those speeds still no but
can we make space allow us to get from a
point a in space to point B in space
faster than light would have taken us
get there that is still mathematically
possible the energetics of it though are
way off mathematically possible well
Einstein's general theory relativity
right shows the Einstein field equations
like way he says dude Einstein's showed
this I have to explain this okay I
didn't mean that way Chuck I'm sorry
just saying that that with Einstein's
general theory relativity his field
equations basically only at this moment
uh even a 100 years after they've been
written um only have a few solutions
that we understand you can manipulate
the mathematics of it in many many
different ways most of which are
nonsensical physically but some of which
might actually show that there is a
possible way of moving through space and
time with that sort of faster than like
warping technique but in order to do it
uh with enough energy to move and motion
and and uh kinetic stuff that's the part
you get stuck because the math shows you
ways you can warp space and time to make
it happen but actually getting a piece
of mass like you and me or a spaceship
from that point to that other point
piece of ass or a piece of mass
what piece of M like you and me swear
that's what he said
compliment no matter what okay both
statements are true but I
said referring to the mass I question
not Charles's
taste thank you
okay okay okay here we go yeah so that's
how it works you you can move space and
time but moving a piece of material from
one point in space and time to another
point in space in time that requires a
lot more than just having mathematical
let's settle that here so it's not a
matter of new physics it's a matter of
Technology working within a solution to
that already known physics that's right
wow and I think we're very very far away
from far away all right yeah but
possible is what I heard it has not been
ruled out completely I love it all right
okay here we go we got a few more
minutes see how many we can opal Leman
space nerd opal Leman space nerd says hi
my name is opal Leman for Chuck that's
Layman okay a
God I'm a 14y really 14 too hey oh man
I'm a 14-year-old Atlanta Georgia who
and I was wondering how the antimatter
warp drive containment system works I
read somewhere in the space Chronicles
book that they would need to hold the
antimatter in a chamber made of
antimatter so it wouldn't have to
interact with the matter but I was
wondering how the antimatter containment
system would be held would it be
suspended in the field of magnets or
what that is correct and by the way I
love that a 14-year-old is thinking
about this is just a wonderful thing I
love that a 14-year-old just diss
me or or thought ahead of you to know
that you I would need help there so what
we're saying here is matter antimatter
of course annihilates when they in
contact but if it's contained within a
magnetic vessel right a magnetic bottle
of some kind then it would B basically
bounce off the sides of the bottle
without ever touching the matter that
it's exterior T you would make need to
make sure that your antimatter is
charged either positively or negatively
and then you would create the bottle
with that same kind of charge and it
would be contained inside this so-called
bottle but it's not actually a physical
bottle made of M by the way the charges
the field is the bottle the field is the
bottle the charges interact with the
magnetic field and why do they do that
because it is one force the
electromagnet Force
they go together that's why they're not
just separate entities that is so cool
that's why they can talk to each other
amazing and then because they're like
charged they're it's kind of bouncing
off of it that's right dude that's
amazing exactly I love it God even even
science fiction is awesome as science
that's so great all right all right here
we go um this is Brian Lacy Brian says
hi guys from Baltimore Brian from
Baltimore here as our technological
needs increase so does our need for
strong and reliable power grid in Star
Trek they're powering giant ships and
even bigger space stations I know Fusion
is always 20 years away but in the far
future what are they using also how are
they powering similar smaller devices
like phasers that's right it's amazing
because a phaser is very small but a
huge power source right so yeah where's
all the power come from and don't just
say dilithium crystals because I don't
have enough Captain I don't have enough
okay it is a question that hasn't been
satisfactory answered uh the idea must
be that they have some sort of amazing
battery right some sort of power supply
that they can store enough power in like
a you don't see them refueling anywhere
that's right you can you can wipe out
entire buildings with something that's
just in the palm of your hand and that
makes sense because they can actually
set phasers to overload which I don't
know why you would ever include that
over what happens in overload they blow
up like bombs you can use them as
devices right oh oh that's that sound it
makes
that just so you know it's about to blow
right yeah so the the the way that you
draw power out of something like that
must be through some sort of battery or
a capacitor or something like that but
it has never been properly described
just how that could be put into
something just quickly tell everyone
what a capacitor is capacitor is
basically two plates of conducting
things like metal typically and you can
store charge on one waiting to jump onto
the other basically it's a it's a
something that can work uh like a
battery but transfer a huge amount of
electricity very quickly so for example
defibrillators have a capacitor in them
you have the battery charged the
capacitor and then when the
defibrillator goes off the capacitor
sends thousands of volts in fraction of
a second and that's how that work from
one from one contact to the other
correct and it goes through the heart
ideally to to pump it into to reset it
unfortunately
the power sources of these devices have
never been properly described in any
of how convenient just have to assume
that some battery or some capacitor has
incredible power okay so Chuck I don't
know much we got time for like one more
question really a
man dog going it here we go this is
Steph and Steph says Captain's Log 2024
Alpha Omega greetings Dr Tyson Lou and
Lord chn and that's the that's enough of
that from me uh he says as we reflect on
the world of Star Trek which is set
around the year 2260 I wonder about the
feasibility of achieving the advanced
technology depicted in the series by
that time considering how Back to the
Future to envisioned the technological
landscape of the early 2000s and how
closely it aligned with our actual
progress aside from the absence of
flying cars what are the prospects of
realizing similar advancements as has
portrayed in the Star in Star Trek by
the year 2260 so you know yeah what are
we looking at are we really looking at
okay I'll put it to you this way to call
this down what percentage of these
technological Wonders that we see in
Star Trek will actually exist by the
year or within 200 years 200 years um my
prediction uh 1% D that is so
disappointing not at all 1% of all the
stuff that was shown out there true lot
great stuff think of what's already
happened right communicators video calls
we were talking about this we talking
about that right there's a lot that's
already existed we've basically hit the
point in Star Trek technology where we
are doing stuff that are reg you break
that up technology cuz that's really
cool that's a long long no technology is
a long off used phrase don't wor
techology technology where credit for it
no credit yeah so we've reached the
point where the stuff we don't know how
it works yet basically needs physics we
don't understand yet so if one out of a
hundred of the physics we don't
understand is resolved I'm happy I'm
psyched all right got but I see what
you're doing there that's so you're
relating it back to the actual science
the discoveries that we may make that
will allow these technological advances
to come true that's why I made the point
earlier are we missing physics or are we
missing techn
OCC
without in a scenario where You' got
technology doing amazing fun things
right you need the attendant physics to
go with it I think that's where we are
now and I'm excited because we are doing
amazing things in our discoveries and
our studies and once we break through
that physics level you know what is dark
matter what is dark energy just to start
with yeah dark energy is opposite
gravity right everything it does is what
gravity does wanted to do and so that if
we can harness that oh my God yeah
exactly yeah you're talking about an
entirely new realm of physics opening
upm of physics yeah that's wow now I'm
excited think about realm of physics
that's a really exciting way to look at
other Realms of physics in 1900 and a
little earli were the first hints of
something unusual going on inside of
Adams and we are now in the Centennial
decade of the development and discovery
of quantum physics interesting a whole
realm that Ena computers there is no
storage a creation storage or retrieval
of information digital information
without an exploitation of the quantum
quantum physics oh my gosh what a segue
that
was right back to the handy handy answer
book physics y that's really cool man
that now here's something that clearly
will never come true because it hasn't
come true yet okay every sci-fi movie
yes in the future everyone's wearing the
same clothes ah yeah have you noticed
that and everybody they got these
shoulder things and they they're all
wearing the same I am gleep right we
have resisted that to this day and I
think that's because it's one of the
easiest things to resist we want to make
things uniform we want to make things
predictable but we want to keep
ourselves unpredictable as individual
and what's the easiest way to do way of
self expression as to what you what you
put on your body good I like that or not
okay as as anybody who has a young child
knows they will go to a through a phase
where they're like I'm going to be naked
and this is just how I am you know I
remember those days they were very
freeing yes and he's just like we're at
a restaurant you can't do it right now
it's just like I don't care about your
food I want to be
naked is that how your children speak
to I had a 16-year-old high school girl
yeah in this office in fact that chair
oh who was not even part of the original
invite of who came to my office it was
her boyfriend oh who was a big
astrophysics fan and he just dragged her
only would I learn because I like
engaging everyone who comes into my
office because there were four of them
in there because it was the kid his
sister both their parents and the guy's
girlfriend she was just sitting there
and I just Tred to engage everybody and
and I said whatat are you into and I
forgot what she said but she said she
really likes Star Trek hey and I said
she's 16 I said whoo like by how much do
you like Star Trek she said I brought
you a
gift I don't know how she got it this is
the Federation trivia book wow mission
one and mission two w this is back when
this is like type you know typewriter
type face so I'm gonna let's let's see
if Charles can maintain oh he's gonna
geek blow he's gonna blow it away
I'll I'm not that good stuff 50 pages
I'm not that good with this sort of
stuff all right here we go here we go
revised second edition 1976 oh my gosh I
don't know who is DC Fontana oh she's a
very famous science fiction writer who
wrote a number of Beautiful episodes of
Star Trek look what I tell you okay okay
okay okay okay what is Spock's last name
you couldn't pronounce
it good answer well played well play
well
played well played okay what is sulu's
first name Hikaru damn look at you man
killing this just getting lucky guys in
what year was Flint born I do not know
who's Flint I don't remember Flint what
happened to Scotty in the changing I
should know this but I I don't he got
changed I guess into a ling
okay name the woman Kirk cannot help
loving is that Joan Collins no isn't it
the nurse nurse chap nurse no but it's
not nurse Chapel uh they they made him
they made him love her well there was
one where when he touched the tears of a
particular alien woman you would have to
fall in love with this woman but
unfortunately uh they actually broke
that spell because his one true love was
is the Enterprise I remember that my
gosh oh see I'm want to be Kirk he loves
totally that a couple more just a couple
more that's cuz he had you know sex with
so many aliens he you know I know right
right he was like whatever right who is
JoJo
CCO Charles I sorry I'm
not JoJo C sounds someone from the piece
of the action but I don't remember the
exact name oh that was one of my least
favorite episodes really yeah totally
okay okay worst gangster name ever well
that was the point they were trying to
see I'm JoJo CCO see n that's
right okay what was the planet in the
Man Trap it was the planet
hey I'm sorry I'm drawing a blank I
don't know that one
alas Okay so you're not infallible this
that's that was the that's what we
needed here oh please our geek and chief
has some BL some blind spots yeah yeah
the blind spots that you would have to
be a writer of Star Trek not to have you
have to be one of the writers when I
think of Science Fiction and
storytelling embedded within
it often it's not just
allegory for the
challenges that we face in everyday life
at its best it's that yes but for me
they also represent dream states of a
future that if we try hard enough that
we
can make
happen and we know it's not going to
happen without our Collective
Investments without our
Collective sense of what we want to be
there waiting for us in the
future but I ask myself without science
fiction would we still be in the caves
without somebody thinking about a future
and what rle science technology
invention
innovation without what role those could
play in our
lives I don't want to live in that
world I want to always
live not just believing but
knowing that we will all be living
differently tomorrow than we are today
and not just differently living
better Star Trek not only gave us a
glimpse into what the future of Science
and Technology might bring each episode
at its best was also a morality
tale CU what good is the power of
Science and Technology going into the
future without the wisdom to harness it
to do right by it to do right by your
neighbor in the presence of such power
so if there's a world without science
fiction I don't want to live in
it keep it coming so that we can all
dream about a tomorrow that's better
than
today that is a cosmic
perspective the two of you
professionally in your lives have served
as radio announcers correct that is true
okay so I have not but I've pretended I
was at times I want you in sequence to
give me your smoothest radio voice
saying this has been Star Talk keep
looking up okay your smoothest radio
voice we're going to come down the
lineer and the audience is going to get
it three times okay go Charles this has
been Star Talk keep looking up this has
been Star Talk keep looking up
[Music]